github.md, before:

# GitHub basic commands

The following is a list of useful GitHub commands. If your still confused after reading it don't hesitate to ping [@PhilPalmer](https://github.com/PhilPalmer) or [@adeslatt](https://github.com/adeslatt). You can also read this [this guide](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/) (10mins read) for a more comprehensive introduction to GitHub.

## Download the repository from GitHub.com to your machine

As the repository is currently private you wil need to sign in to your GitHub account. (You can also [chache your password or generate SSH keys](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/set-up-git#next-steps-authenticating-with-github-from-git) to prevent needing to enter your username and password everytime you push or pull from GitHub).

```bash
git clone https://github.com/TheJacksonLaboratory/splicing-pipelines-nf.git
```

## Change into the \`repo\` directory

```bash
cd splicing-pipelines-nf
```
 
## To ensure you are up-to-date with the `master` branch or whatever branch you may be on

This command updates the local branch (line of development) with updates from its remote counterpart. Developers use this command if a teammate has made commits to a branch on a remote, and they would like to reflect those changes in their local environment.

```bash
git pull
```

## To checkout on your own branch 

Remember to not stay on a branch long, so your changes do not get too far out of sync with the master. A common convention for branch names is `yourname-feature` eg `phil-docs-update`

```bash
git checkout -b [name of your branch]
```

Once you are on your own branch you can then make changes, for example, edit `README.md` using the text editor

## To show the status of changes

Changes are shown as either untracked, modified, or staged. It will also show you what branch you're on

```bash
git status
```

## To add, commit and push your changes.

### add
Stage the changed files eg `git add README.md`
```bash
git add [whatever you have added]
```

### commit
This is like taking a snapshot of all of the files that have been added
```bash
git commit -m “a useful message regarding what you have changed”
```
 
### push
Push changes to github
```bash
git push
```

![git_cmds](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lifebit-ai/images/master/jax_splicing/git_cmds.gif)

## To push your local branch onto master

```bash
git push https://github.com/TheJacksonLaboratory/splicing-pipelines-nf.git [name of your branch]
```

Commit message:

Updated github docs with pull request info

github.md, after:

# GitHub basic commands

The following is a list of useful GitHub commands. If your still confused after reading it don't hesitate to ping [@PhilPalmer](https://github.com/PhilPalmer) or [@adeslatt](https://github.com/adeslatt). You can also read this [this guide](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/) (10mins read) for a more comprehensive introduction to GitHub.

## Download the repository from GitHub.com to your machine

As the repository is currently private you wil need to sign in to your GitHub account. (You can also [chache your password or generate SSH keys](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/set-up-git#next-steps-authenticating-with-github-from-git) to prevent needing to enter your username and password everytime you push or pull from GitHub).

```bash
git clone https://github.com/TheJacksonLaboratory/splicing-pipelines-nf.git
```

## Change into the \`repo\` directory

```bash
cd splicing-pipelines-nf
```
 
## To ensure you are up-to-date with the `master` branch or whatever branch you may be on

This command updates the local branch (line of development) with updates from its remote counterpart. Developers use this command if a teammate has made commits to a branch on a remote, and they would like to reflect those changes in their local environment.

```bash
git pull
```

## To checkout on your own branch 

Remember to not stay on a branch long, so your changes do not get too far out of sync with the master. A common convention for branch names is `yourname-feature` eg `phil-docs-update`

```bash
git checkout -b [name of your branch]
```

Once you are on your own branch you can then make changes, for example, edit `README.md` using the text editor

## To show the status of changes

Changes are shown as either untracked, modified, or staged. It will also show you what branch you're on

```bash
git status
```

## To add, commit and push your changes.

### add
Stage the changed files eg `git add README.md`
```bash
git add [whatever you have added]
```

### commit
This is like taking a snapshot of all of the files that have been added
```bash
git commit -m “a useful message regarding what you have changed”
```
 
### push
Push changes to github
```bash
git push
```

![git_cmds](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lifebit-ai/images/master/jax_splicing/git_cmds.gif)

## To push your new local branch to GitHub

```bash
git push --set-upstream origin [name of your branch]
```

You can then [open a pull request](https://github.com/TheJacksonLaboratory/splicing-pipelines-nf/compare?expand=1) from your branch into master. This allows everyone to be able to see and review the changes you've made. Once you're happy with the changes (and ideally once the changes have been reviewed by at least one other person) you can then click merge to merge your changes into the `master` branch for everyone to use! :tada:
