docs/usage.md, before:

# Running the pipeline

## For running the pipeline on Sumner
See [here](run_on_sumner.md)

## For running the pipeline on CloudOS
See [here](run_on_cloudos.md)

# Nextflow parameters

Nextflow parameters can be provided in one of two ways:
1) They can be specified in configuration files
2) They can be specified on the command-line

<details>
<summary>For example, all of the following are equivalent:</summary>

1) Config file
```groovy
params.reads      = '/path/to/reads.csv'
params.readlength = 48
params.singleEnd  = true
```

OR 

```groovy
params {
  reads      = '/path/to/reads.csv'
  readlength = 48
  singleEnd  = true
}
```

See [configuration scopes](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/config.html#config-scopes) for more information on this^

2) Specifying parameters on the command-line
```bash
nextflow run main.nf --reads /path/to/reads.csv --readlength 48 --singleEnd true
```

</details>

Parameters specified on the command-line take precedence over those specified in configuration files. It is generally best-practice to have your parameters saved in a configuration file as this makes your analysis more reproducible if you need to run it again.

[Profiles](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/en/latest/config.html#config-profiles) are configuration that can be included by specifying the profile name on the command-line. For example, `-profile sumner` to include configuration specific to JAX's HPC Sumner

## Types of Nextflow parameters

### String 

Strings can be specified using 'single' or "double quotes"

#### Paths

File paths can be any one of the following:
1) Local path - from directory that Nextflow is run in
2) Full path
3) Links - `https`, `ftp`, `s3` & `gs` links can all be used to specify input files provided that you have access to the file. Nextflow will automatically download these files into the `work` directory (in `work/stage`). On subsequent executions the pre-downloaded files will be used.

### Int

Integers can be specified without using quotes both in the configuration files and on the command-line

### Bool

Boolean parameters can be set to either `true` or `false`. Many of the parameters are initialised to `false` in [`nextflow.config`](../nextflow.config). You can set parameters to true on the command line just by using the flag. For example, just using `--singleEnd` will set the `singleEnd` parameter to true.

<details>
<summary>Side note:</summary>

However, be careful doing this as `--singleEnd false` will actually set the `singleEnd` parameter to the string `'false'` not the boolean `false`. Counterintuively, as this is a string that is present it actually mean that `singleEnd` will evaluate to true :satisfied:

This is another reason why it can be best to specify parameters in a confugration file rather than on the command-line
</details>

### Other

Memory units eg for `max_memory` can be specified in gigabytes eg `8.GB`

Time units eg for `max_time` can be specified in hours eg `2.h`

Both of these should be specified without quotes

## All available parameters
```
Input files:
  --reads                       Path to reads.csv file, which specifies the sample_id and path to FASTQ files for each read or read pair (path).
                                This file is used if starting at beginning of pipeline. 
                                (default: no reads.csv)
  --bams                        Path to bams.csv file which specifies sample_id and path to BAM and BAM.bai files (path)
                                This file is used if starting pipeline at Stringtie.
                                (default: no bams.csv)
  --rmats_pairs                 Path to rmats_pairs.txt file containing b1 (and b2) samples names (path)
                                (default: no rmats_pairs specified) 
  --run_name                    User specified name used as prefix for output files
                                (defaut: no prefix, only date and time)
  --download_from               Database to download FASTQ/BAMs from (available = 'TCGA', 'GTEX' or 'GEN3-DRS', 'SRA') (string)
  				false should be used to run local files on the HPC (Sumner).
				'TCGA' can also be used to download GDC data including HCMI data.
                                (default: false)
  --key_file                    For downloading reads, use TCGA authentication token (TCGA) or dbGAP repository key (GTEx, path)
  				or credentials.josn file in case of 'GEN3-DRS'
                                (default: false)
                                
Main arguments:
  --gtf                         Path to reference GTF file (path)
                                (default: no gtf specified) 
  --assembly_name               Genome assembly name (available = 'GRCh38' or 'GRCm38', string)
                                (default: false)
  --star_index                  Path to STAR index (path)
                                (default: read length)
  --singleEnd                   Specifies that the input is single-end reads (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --stranded                    Specifies that the input is stranded ('first-strand', 'second-strand', false (aka unstranded))
                                (default: 'first-strand')
  --readlength                  Read length - Note that all reads will be cropped to this length(int)
                                (default: no read length specified)
  -profile                      Configuration profile to use. Can use multiple (comma separated, string)
                                Available: base, docker, sumner, test and more.
                        
Trimmomatic: 
  --minlen                      Drop the read if it is below a specified length (int)
				Default parameters turn on --variable-readlength
				To crop all reads and turn off --variable-readlength, set minlen = readlength                               
                                (default: 20)
  --slidingwindow               Perform a sliding window trimming approach (bool)
                                (default: true)
  --adapter                     Path to adapter file (path)  
                                (default: TruSeq3 for either PE or SE, see singleEnd parameter)
                                
Star:                    
  --mismatch                    Number of allowed mismatches per read (SE) or combined read (PE) (int)
                                SE ex. read length of 50, allow 2 mismatches per 50 bp
                                PE ex. read length of 50, allow 2 mismatches per 100 bp 
                                (default: 2)
  --overhang                    Overhang (int)
                                (default: readlength - 1)
  --filterScore                 Controls --outFilterScoreMinOverLread and outFilterMatchNminOverLread
                                (default: 0.66)
  --sjdbOverhangMin             Controls --alignSJDBoverhangMin (int)
                                (default: 3)
  --soft_clipping               Enables soft clipping (bool)
                                If true, the STAR parameter will be --alignEndsType Local and the rMATS parameter --allow-clipping will be added.
				If false, the STAR parameter will be --alignEndsType 'EndToEnd' and no rMATS parameter is added.
				NOTE: Soft Clipping will cause read lengths to be variable, so turn soft_clipping off if reads need to be same length. Variable read length   	                                 parameter is turned on in rMATS when minlen does not equal readlength.
                                (default: true)
  --star_memory                 Max memory to be used by STAR to sort BAM files.
                                (default: Available task memory)

rMATS:                              
  --statoff                     Skip the statistical analysis (bool)
                                If using only b1 as input, this must be turned on.
                                (default: false)
  --paired_stats                Use the paired stats model (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --novelSS                     Enable detection of unnanotated splice sites (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --mil                         Minimum Intron Length. Only impacts --novelSS behavior (int)
                                (default: 50)
  --mel                         Maximum Exon Length. Only impacts --novelSS behavior (int)
                                (default: 500)

Other:
  --test                        For running trim test (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --max_cpus                    Maximum number of CPUs (int)
                                (default: 72)  
  --max_memory                  Maximum memory (memory unit)
                                (default: 760)
  --max_time                    Maximum time (time unit)
                                (default: 72.h)
  --skiprMATS                   Skip rMATS (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --skipMultiQC                 Skip MultiQC (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --outdir                      The output directory where the results will be saved (string)
                                (default: directory where you submit the job)
  --mega_time                   Sets time limit for processes withLabel 'mega_memory' in the main.nf using the base.config (time unit)
                                Make sure '#SBATCH -t' in 'main.pbs' is appropriately set if you are changing this parameter.
                                (default: 20.h)
  --gc_disk_size                Only specific to google-cloud executor. Adds disk-space for few aggregative processes.
                                (default: "200 GB" based on 100 samples. Simply add 2 x Number of Samples)
  --debug                       This option will enable echo of script execution into STDOUT with some additional 
                                resource information (such as machine type, memory, cpu and disk space)
                                (default: false)

	    
```

## Run with data from AnviL Gen3-DRS

You will be needing two things from - https://gen3.theanvil.io/

1. manifest file
2. credentials file

Original downloaded `manifest.json` file need to be converted into `manifest.csv` in order to be accepted in `--reads`, for doing that you can do this - 

```bash
pip install csvkit
in2csv manifest.json > manifest.csv
```

NOTE: Make sure the `manifest.csv` file have five columns, Check from [examples](../examples/gen3/)

Downloaded `credentials.json` file can be provided in `--key` param.

NOTE: Make sure `credentials.json` is a latest one. They have expiry dates when you download.

If you running with AnviL Gen3-DRS files you also need to provide a Genome fasta file with `--genome_fasta`, which will be used to convert CRAM files to BAM format.

For a minimal params list check [gen3_drs.config](../conf/examples/GEN3_DRS_config.md)

### Extract based on a bam query list

If you have a list of bam file names of interest, extract the manifest file - 

```bash
# Get all the bam files name into a txt file
cut -d, -f4 query_list.csv > bam_files_list.txt
# Extract those bam files list from manifest.csv
grep -f bam_files_list.txt -i manifest.csv > manifest.csv
```

Here `query_list.csv` should look something like - 

```csv
file_name,sequencing_assay,data_format,file_name,sample_id,participant_id,tissue,age,gender
GTEX-11EM3-1326-SM-5N9C6,RNA-Seq,bam,GTEX-11EM3-1326-SM-5N9C6.Aligned.sortedByCoord.out.patched.md.bam,GTEX-11EM3-1326-SM-5N9C6,GTEX-11EM3,Breast,21,Female
GTEX-RU1J-0626-SM-4WAWY,RNA-Seq,bam,GTEX-RU1J-0626-SM-4WAWY.Aligned.sortedByCoord.out.patched.md.bam,GTEX-RU1J-0626-SM-4WAWY,GTEX-RU1J,Breast,21,Female
GTEX-ZTPG-2826-SM-57WGA,RNA-Seq,bam,GTEX-ZTPG-2826-SM-57WGA.Aligned.sortedByCoord.out.patched.md.bam,GTEX-ZTPG-2826-SM-57WGA,GTEX-ZTPG,Breast,21,Female
```

Commit message:

Adds --cleanup option description to usage.md

docs/usage.md, after:

# Running the pipeline

## For running the pipeline on Sumner
See [here](run_on_sumner.md)

## For running the pipeline on CloudOS
See [here](run_on_cloudos.md)

# Nextflow parameters

Nextflow parameters can be provided in one of two ways:
1) They can be specified in configuration files
2) They can be specified on the command-line

<details>
<summary>For example, all of the following are equivalent:</summary>

1) Config file
```groovy
params.reads      = '/path/to/reads.csv'
params.readlength = 48
params.singleEnd  = true
```

OR 

```groovy
params {
  reads      = '/path/to/reads.csv'
  readlength = 48
  singleEnd  = true
}
```

See [configuration scopes](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/config.html#config-scopes) for more information on this^

2) Specifying parameters on the command-line
```bash
nextflow run main.nf --reads /path/to/reads.csv --readlength 48 --singleEnd true
```

</details>

Parameters specified on the command-line take precedence over those specified in configuration files. It is generally best-practice to have your parameters saved in a configuration file as this makes your analysis more reproducible if you need to run it again.

[Profiles](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/en/latest/config.html#config-profiles) are configuration that can be included by specifying the profile name on the command-line. For example, `-profile sumner` to include configuration specific to JAX's HPC Sumner

## Types of Nextflow parameters

### String 

Strings can be specified using 'single' or "double quotes"

#### Paths

File paths can be any one of the following:
1) Local path - from directory that Nextflow is run in
2) Full path
3) Links - `https`, `ftp`, `s3` & `gs` links can all be used to specify input files provided that you have access to the file. Nextflow will automatically download these files into the `work` directory (in `work/stage`). On subsequent executions the pre-downloaded files will be used.

### Int

Integers can be specified without using quotes both in the configuration files and on the command-line

### Bool

Boolean parameters can be set to either `true` or `false`. Many of the parameters are initialised to `false` in [`nextflow.config`](../nextflow.config). You can set parameters to true on the command line just by using the flag. For example, just using `--singleEnd` will set the `singleEnd` parameter to true.

<details>
<summary>Side note:</summary>

However, be careful doing this as `--singleEnd false` will actually set the `singleEnd` parameter to the string `'false'` not the boolean `false`. Counterintuively, as this is a string that is present it actually mean that `singleEnd` will evaluate to true :satisfied:

This is another reason why it can be best to specify parameters in a confugration file rather than on the command-line
</details>

### Other

Memory units eg for `max_memory` can be specified in gigabytes eg `8.GB`

Time units eg for `max_time` can be specified in hours eg `2.h`

Both of these should be specified without quotes

## All available parameters
```
Input files:
  --reads                       Path to reads.csv file, which specifies the sample_id and path to FASTQ files for each read or read pair (path).
                                This file is used if starting at beginning of pipeline. 
                                (default: no reads.csv)
  --bams                        Path to bams.csv file which specifies sample_id and path to BAM and BAM.bai files (path)
                                This file is used if starting pipeline at Stringtie.
                                (default: no bams.csv)
  --rmats_pairs                 Path to rmats_pairs.txt file containing b1 (and b2) samples names (path)
                                (default: no rmats_pairs specified) 
  --run_name                    User specified name used as prefix for output files
                                (defaut: no prefix, only date and time)
  --download_from               Database to download FASTQ/BAMs from (available = 'TCGA', 'GTEX' or 'GEN3-DRS', 'SRA') (string)
  				false should be used to run local files on the HPC (Sumner).
				'TCGA' can also be used to download GDC data including HCMI data.
                                (default: false)
  --key_file                    For downloading reads, use TCGA authentication token (TCGA) or dbGAP repository key (GTEx, path)
  				or credentials.josn file in case of 'GEN3-DRS'
                                (default: false)
                                
Main arguments:
  --gtf                         Path to reference GTF file (path)
                                (default: no gtf specified) 
  --assembly_name               Genome assembly name (available = 'GRCh38' or 'GRCm38', string)
                                (default: false)
  --star_index                  Path to STAR index (path)
                                (default: read length)
  --singleEnd                   Specifies that the input is single-end reads (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --stranded                    Specifies that the input is stranded ('first-strand', 'second-strand', false (aka unstranded))
                                (default: 'first-strand')
  --readlength                  Read length - Note that all reads will be cropped to this length(int)
                                (default: no read length specified)
  -profile                      Configuration profile to use. Can use multiple (comma separated, string)
                                Available: base, docker, sumner, test and more.
                        
Trimmomatic: 
  --minlen                      Drop the read if it is below a specified length (int)
				Default parameters turn on --variable-readlength
				To crop all reads and turn off --variable-readlength, set minlen = readlength                               
                                (default: 20)
  --slidingwindow               Perform a sliding window trimming approach (bool)
                                (default: true)
  --adapter                     Path to adapter file (path)  
                                (default: TruSeq3 for either PE or SE, see singleEnd parameter)
                                
Star:                    
  --mismatch                    Number of allowed mismatches per read (SE) or combined read (PE) (int)
                                SE ex. read length of 50, allow 2 mismatches per 50 bp
                                PE ex. read length of 50, allow 2 mismatches per 100 bp 
                                (default: 2)
  --overhang                    Overhang (int)
                                (default: readlength - 1)
  --filterScore                 Controls --outFilterScoreMinOverLread and outFilterMatchNminOverLread
                                (default: 0.66)
  --sjdbOverhangMin             Controls --alignSJDBoverhangMin (int)
                                (default: 3)
  --soft_clipping               Enables soft clipping (bool)
                                If true, the STAR parameter will be --alignEndsType Local and the rMATS parameter --allow-clipping will be added.
				If false, the STAR parameter will be --alignEndsType 'EndToEnd' and no rMATS parameter is added.
				NOTE: Soft Clipping will cause read lengths to be variable, so turn soft_clipping off if reads need to be same length. Variable read length   	                                 parameter is turned on in rMATS when minlen does not equal readlength.
                                (default: true)
  --star_memory                 Max memory to be used by STAR to sort BAM files.
                                (default: Available task memory)

rMATS:                              
  --statoff                     Skip the statistical analysis (bool)
                                If using only b1 as input, this must be turned on.
                                (default: false)
  --paired_stats                Use the paired stats model (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --novelSS                     Enable detection of unnanotated splice sites (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --mil                         Minimum Intron Length. Only impacts --novelSS behavior (int)
                                (default: 50)
  --mel                         Maximum Exon Length. Only impacts --novelSS behavior (int)
                                (default: 500)

Other:
  --test                        For running trim test (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --max_cpus                    Maximum number of CPUs (int)
                                (default: 72)  
  --max_memory                  Maximum memory (memory unit)
                                (default: 760)
  --max_time                    Maximum time (time unit)
                                (default: 72.h)
  --skiprMATS                   Skip rMATS (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --skipMultiQC                 Skip MultiQC (bool)
                                (default: false)
  --outdir                      The output directory where the results will be saved (string)
                                (default: directory where you submit the job)
  --mega_time                   Sets time limit for processes withLabel 'mega_memory' in the main.nf using the base.config (time unit)
                                Make sure '#SBATCH -t' in 'main.pbs' is appropriately set if you are changing this parameter.
                                (default: 20.h)
  --gc_disk_size                Only specific to google-cloud executor. Adds disk-space for few aggregative processes.
                                (default: "200 GB" based on 100 samples. Simply add 2 x Number of Samples)
  --debug                       This option will enable echo of script execution into STDOUT with some additional 
                                resource information (such as machine type, memory, cpu and disk space)
                                (default: false)
  --cleanup                     This option will enable nextflow work folder cleanup upon pipeline successfull completion.
                                All intermediate files from nexftlow processes' workdirs will be cleared, staging folder with staged
                                files will not be cleared.
                                If pipeline is completed with errors or interrupted cleanup will not be executed. Following successfull run
                                resumed from the failed run with --cleanup option enabled will only clear folders of processess created in
                                the latest run, it will not clear cached folders coming from previous pipleine runs.
                                (default: false)


	    
```

## Run with data from AnviL Gen3-DRS

You will be needing two things from - https://gen3.theanvil.io/

1. manifest file
2. credentials file

Original downloaded `manifest.json` file need to be converted into `manifest.csv` in order to be accepted in `--reads`, for doing that you can do this - 

```bash
pip install csvkit
in2csv manifest.json > manifest.csv
```

NOTE: Make sure the `manifest.csv` file have five columns, Check from [examples](../examples/gen3/)

Downloaded `credentials.json` file can be provided in `--key` param.

NOTE: Make sure `credentials.json` is a latest one. They have expiry dates when you download.

If you running with AnviL Gen3-DRS files you also need to provide a Genome fasta file with `--genome_fasta`, which will be used to convert CRAM files to BAM format.

For a minimal params list check [gen3_drs.config](../conf/examples/GEN3_DRS_config.md)

### Extract based on a bam query list

If you have a list of bam file names of interest, extract the manifest file - 

```bash
# Get all the bam files name into a txt file
cut -d, -f4 query_list.csv > bam_files_list.txt
# Extract those bam files list from manifest.csv
grep -f bam_files_list.txt -i manifest.csv > manifest.csv
```

Here `query_list.csv` should look something like - 

```csv
file_name,sequencing_assay,data_format,file_name,sample_id,participant_id,tissue,age,gender
GTEX-11EM3-1326-SM-5N9C6,RNA-Seq,bam,GTEX-11EM3-1326-SM-5N9C6.Aligned.sortedByCoord.out.patched.md.bam,GTEX-11EM3-1326-SM-5N9C6,GTEX-11EM3,Breast,21,Female
GTEX-RU1J-0626-SM-4WAWY,RNA-Seq,bam,GTEX-RU1J-0626-SM-4WAWY.Aligned.sortedByCoord.out.patched.md.bam,GTEX-RU1J-0626-SM-4WAWY,GTEX-RU1J,Breast,21,Female
GTEX-ZTPG-2826-SM-57WGA,RNA-Seq,bam,GTEX-ZTPG-2826-SM-57WGA.Aligned.sortedByCoord.out.patched.md.bam,GTEX-ZTPG-2826-SM-57WGA,GTEX-ZTPG,Breast,21,Female
```
